These instructions exist only for testing purposes and are liable to change 
over time.

Alberti will run as-is in Firefox 5 and Safari 5 w/ the latest WebKit Nightly. 
However, for Chrome you will have to upload Alberti/web/htdocs to a web 
server.

When Alberti/web/htdocs/working-base.xhtml is opened, you will see the Alberti 
workspace. An 'X' marks the center of the workspace, which spans infinitely in 
all directions.

ZOOMING AND PANNING

Enable panning by holding the alt key down. Click and drag to pan the 
workspace. To zoom in, scroll the mousewheel up. To zoom out, scroll down.

CHOOSING TOOLS

As of now, there are only three tools: the selection tool, the line tool, and 
the arc tool. The line tool is selected by default. To choose the selection 
tool, press '1'; for the line tool, press '2'; for the arc tool, press '3'.

THE LINE TOOL

Allows you to draw lines:

1) Click anywhere in the workspace to place a line.
2) Move the mouse, and click to orient the line.
3) Click to place the first endpoint of the line segment.
4) Click to place the second endpoint and complete the line.

Steps 3 and 4 are actually optional. The tool may be short-circuited by 
pressing the return/enter key any time after step 2. Alternatively, you may 
right click after step 1 to immediately short-circuit the tool at step 2.

You may revert to a previous step at any time by pressing the escape key.

THE ARC TOOL

Allows you to draw circular arcs:

1) Click anywhere in the workspace to place the center of the circular arc.
2) Move the mouse, and click to set the radius of the arc.
3) Click to begin sweeping an arc.
4) Move the mouse to sweep the arc and click to complete the arc.
5) Repeat steps 3-4 as desired, pressing enter or right-clicking when you are 
finished with the tool.

Again, you may revert to a previous step at any time by pressing the escape 
key.

THE SELECTION TOOL

Click and drag in the workspace to create a selection box. Upon lifting the 
mouse button, any shapes intersecting with or enclosed by the selection box 
will become selected. To delete the selected shapes, press backspace.

SNAPPING

One of Alberti's most powerful features allows tools to "snap" to line 
intersections. To enable snapping, hold down the 'f' key. While snapping is 
enabled, a translucent circle will appear at line intersections when the 
cursor is held near, and subsequent tool operations will "snap" to the 
highlighted intersection. This is crucial for creating accurate perspective 
constructions.

UNDO AND REDO

To undo, press 'u'; to redo, press 'r'.

OPENING FILES

Select File > Open from the Alberti menu. Some sample files are available in
Alberti/samples.

SAVING FILES

Select File > Save. Assuming you do not have a popup-blocker enabled, a new 
window will pop up containing the raw Alberti document (an SVG file). Using 
your browser's menu, save this page and close the window.

IMPORTING AN UNDERLAY IMAGE

Click on the right-most icon in the Alberti menu (a pair of overlapping 
rectangles). Select "Import Underlay..." and choose an image file. The 
underlay's opacity can be adjusted with the slider to the right of the 
underlay menu icon. Select "Remove Underlay" from the underlay menu to remove 
the underlay. Depending on your browser and hardware, zooming and panning may 
become sluggish while the underlay is displayed.
